[Monitor Query] Add samples/docs for running big queries and overcoming API limits for size and record count (#35704)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-java: sdk/monitor/azure-monitor-query/LargeLogQuery.md

# Running Large Log Queries using Log Analytics

This guide will show you how to run large log queries **without** extra costs using Log Analytics and the Monitor Query SDK.

Due to Log Analytics [service limits](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/service-limits#la-query-api), sometimes it may

> not be possible to retrieve all the expected data in a single query. For example, the nnumber of rows returned or the maximum size of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not be possible to retrieve all the expected data in a single query. For example, the number of rows returned or the maximum size of the
```

data returned may exceed the stated limits. One approach for overcoming these limits is to split the queries into multiple smaller queries

> using different time ranges.

Reviewer 2: Queries can be split into smaller sub-queries based on time ranges only for certain types of queries - for e.g. aggregations may not work well.

**Disclaimer:** This approach of spliting data retrieval into smaller queries is good when dealing with a few GBs of data or a few millions
of records per hour. For larger data sets, 
[exporting](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/logs/logs-data-export?tabs=portal) is recommended.

## Getting Started

An authenticated client is required to query data from Log Analytics. The following code shows how to create a `LogsQueryClient` using the
`DefaultAzureCredential` authentication method.

```java com.azure.monitor.query.LargeQuerySample-createLogsQueryClient
LogsQueryClient client = new LogsQueryClientBuilder()
    .credential(new DefaultAzureCredentialBuilder().build())
    .buildClient();
```

### Setting the Log Analytics Workspace ID

Set the `LOG_WORKSPACE_ID` variable to the ID of the Log Analytics workspace you want to query.

```java com.azure.monitor.query.LargeQuerySample-setWorkspaceId
static final String WORKSPACE_ID = "{workspace-id}";
```

### Defining the Helper Function

> In order to overcome the service limits, the strategy is to query data in smaller chunks based on some time column (i.e. TImeGenerated). The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to overcome the service limits, the strategy is to query data in smaller chunks based on a timestamp column (e.g. `TimeGenerated`). The
```

following helper function take a large query and splits it into a `LogsBatchQuery` based on a list of time ranges (called endpoints).

```java com.azure.monitor.query.LargeQuerySample-createBatchQueryFromLargeQuery
static LogsBatchQuery createBatchQueryFromLargeQuery(String originalQuery,
                                                     List<OffsetDateTime> endpoints,

>                                                      String timeColumn) {

Reviewer 2: How does the user get the list of endpoints? Also, endpoints can be confused for URLs. So, we should use something like dateRanges.

    LogsBatchQuery batchQuery = new LogsBatchQuery();

    for (int i = 0; i < endpoints.size(); i++) {
        String queryString;
        if (i == endpoints.size() - 1) {

>             queryString = String.format("%1$s | where %3$s >= datetime('%2$s')", originalQuery, endpoints.get(i), timeColumn);

Reviewer 2: We should not modify the query string. We should instead use the QueryTimeInterval to set the start and end timestamps.

        }
        else {
            queryString = String.format("%1$s | where %4$s >= datetime('%2$s') and %4$s < datetime('%3$s')", originalQuery, endpoints.get(i), endpoints.get(i + 1), timeColumn);
        }

>         batchQuery.addWorkspaceQuery(WORKSPACE_ID,queryString, null);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        batchQuery.addWorkspaceQuery(WORKSPACE_ID, queryString, null);
```

>         batchQuery.addWorkspaceQuery(WORKSPACE_ID,queryString, null);

Reviewer 2: Instead of `null`, we should use the QueryTimeInterval type to set the start and end times.

    }

    return batchQuery;
}

> ```

Reviewer: mind adding a comment showing an example of the original query and individual pieces of batch query after splitting? (either in the code or just in the md file)

### Defining the Query-BatchQuery conversion Functions

> This sample provids two functions to convert a `LogsQuery` into a `LogsBatchQuery`. One function splits the query into multiple smaller queries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This sample provides two functions to convert a `LogsQuery` into a `LogsBatchQuery`. One function splits the query into multiple smaller queries
```

based upon the approximate* maximum amount of rows to be present in each query. The other function splits the query into multiple smaller queries based upon
the approximate* maximum size of the data in bytes to be present in each query.

> _*If multiple rows have the exact same TimeGenerated, the queries in the batch query may exceed the maximum amount of rows/bytes_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_*If multiple rows have the exact same `TimeGenerated` (or another timestamp column), the queries in the batch query may exceed the maximum amount of rows/bytes_
```

#### Splitting by Rows

```java com.azure.monitor.query.LargeQuerySample-createBatchQueryFromLargeQueryByRows
static LogsBatchQuery createBatchQueryFromLargeQueryByRowCount(String originalQuery,
                                                               int maxRowPerBatch,
                                                               String timeColumn) {

>     String findBatchEndpointsQuery = String.format(

Reviewer: same here, would you mind adding an example with the original query and an example of formatted string?

        "%1$s | sort by %2$s desc | extend batch_num = row_cumsum(1) / %3$s | summarize endpoint=min(%2$s) by batch_num | sort by batch_num desc | project endpoint",
        originalQuery,
        timeColumn,
        maxRowPerBatch);

    LogsQueryResult result = client.queryWorkspace(WORKSPACE_ID, findBatchEndpointsQuery, QueryTimeInterval.ALL);
    LogsTable table = result.getTable();
    List<LogsTableColumn> columns = table.getColumns();
    List<LogsTableRow> rows = table.getRows();
    List<OffsetDateTime> endpoints = new ArrayList<>();

    for (LogsTableRow row : rows) {
        row.getColumnValue("endpoint").ifPresent(rowValue -> {
            endpoints.add(rowValue.getValueAsDateTime());
        });
    }

    return createBatchQueryFromLargeQuery(originalQuery, endpoints, timeColumn);
}
```

#### Splitting by Size

```java com.azure.monitor.query.LargeQuerySample-createBatchQueryFromLargeQueryBySize
static LogsBatchQuery createBatchQueryFromLargeQueryByByteSize(String originalQuery,
                                                               int maxByteSizePerBatch,
                                                               String timeColumn) {

>     String findBatchEndpointsQuery = String.format(

Reviewer: and here :)
